Skip to content
Nobel Prizes & laureates
About
Stories
Educational
Events & museums

Statue of Alfred Nobel. Photo: A. Mahmoud
NOBEL PRIZES 2024
The Nobel Prize in Physics 2024
John Hopfield
“for foundational discoveries and inventions that enable machine learning with artificial neural networks”
John Hopfield. Ill. Niklas Elmehed © Nobel Prize Outreach
Geoffrey Hinton
“for foundational discoveries and inventions that enable machine learning with artificial neural networks”
Geoffrey Hinton. Ill. Niklas Elmehed © Nobel Prize Outreach
They used physics to find patterns in information

This year’s laureates used tools from physics to construct methods that helped lay the foundation for today’s powerful machine learning. John Hopfield created a structure that can store and reconstruct information. Geoffrey Hinton invented a method that can independently discover properties in data and which has become important for the large artificial neural networks now in use.
Related articles
Press release
Popular information: They used physics to find patterns in information
Scientific background: “for foundational discoveries and inventions that enable machine learning with artificial neural networks”
Illustration
© Johan Jarnestad/The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2024
David Baker
“for computational protein design”
David Baker. Ill. Niklas Elmehed © Nobel Prize Outreach
Demis Hassabis
“for protein structure prediction”
Demis Hassabis. Ill. Niklas Elmehed © Nobel Prize Outreach
John Jumper
“for protein structure prediction”
John Jumper. Ill. Niklas Elmehed © Nobel Prize Outreach
They cracked the code for proteins’ amazing structures

The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2024 is about proteins, life’s ingenious chemical tools. David Baker has succeeded with the almost impossible feat of building entirely new kinds of proteins. Demis Hassabis and John Jumper have developed an AI model to solve a 50-year-old problem: predicting proteins’ complex structures. These discoveries hold enormous potential.
Related articles
Press release
Popular information: They have revealed proteins’ secrets through computing and artificial intelligence
Scientific background: Computational protein design and protein structure prediction

© Johan Jarnestad/The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 2024
Victor Ambros
“for the discovery of microRNA and its role in post-transcriptional gene regulation”
Victor AmbrosVictor Ambros. Ill. Niklas Elmehed © Nobel Prize Outreach
Gary Ruvkun
“for the discovery of microRNA and its role in post-transcriptional gene regulation”
Gary RuvkunGary Ruvkun. Ill. Niklas Elmehed © Nobel Prize Outreach
Tiny RNAs with profound physiological importance

Victor Ambros and Gary Ruvkun discovered microRNA, a new class of tiny RNA molecules that play a crucial role in gene regulation. Their groundbreaking discovery in the small worm C. elegans revealed a completely new principle of gene regulation. This turned out to be essential for multicellular organisms, including humans. MicroRNAs are proving to be fundamentally important for how organisms develop and function.
Related articles
Press release
Scientific background: For the discovery of microRNA and its role in post-transcriptional gene regulation
Illustration
© The Nobel Committee for Physiology or Medicine. Ill. Mattias Karlén
The Nobel Prize in Literature 2024
Han Kang
“for her intense poetic prose that confronts historical traumas and exposes the fragility of human life”
Han KangHan Kang. Ill. Niklas Elmehed © Nobel Prize Outreach
Han Kang

The Nobel Prize in Literature 2024 is awarded to the South Korean author Han Kang, “for her intense poetic prose that confronts historical traumas and exposes the fragility of human life.”

In her oeuvre, Han Kang confronts historical traumas and invisible sets of rules and, in each of her works, exposes the fragility of human life. She has a unique awareness of the connections between body and soul, the living and the dead, and in her poetic and experimental style has become an innovator in contemporary prose.

Press release
Biobibliography
South Korean writer Han Kang attends a photocall at Edinburgh International Book Festival at Charlotte Square Gardens on August 17, 2016 in Edinburgh, Scotland.
South Korean writer Han Kang attends a photocall at Edinburgh International Book Festival at Charlotte Square Gardens on August 17, 2016 in Edinburgh, Scotland. Photo by Roberto Ricciuti/Getty Images
The Nobel Peace Prize 2024
Nihon Hidankyo
“for its efforts to achieve a world free of nuclear weapons and for demonstrating through witness testimony that nuclear weapons must never be used again”
Ill. Niklas Elmehed © Nobel Prize Outreach
A powerful international norm stigmatising nuclear weapons

The grassroots movement of atomic bomb survivors from Hiroshima and Nagasaki, also known as Hibakusha, is receiving the Nobel Peace Prize for its efforts to achieve a world free of nuclear weapons and for demonstrating through witness testimony that nuclear weapons must never be used again. The extraordinary efforts of Nihon Hidankyo and other representatives of the Hibakusha have contributed greatly to the establishment of a nuclear taboo.

Press release
Prize announcement

Ill. Niklas Elmehed © Nobel Prize Outreach
The Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 2024
Daron Acemoglu
“for studies of how institutions are formed and affect prosperity”
Daron AcemogluDaron Acemoglu. Ill. Niklas Elmehed © Nobel Prize Outreach
Simon Johnson
“for studies of how institutions are formed and affect prosperity”
Simon JohnsonSimon Johnson. Ill. Niklas Elmehed © Nobel Prize Outreach
James Robinson
“for studies of how institutions are formed and affect prosperity”
James RobinsonJames Robinson. Ill. Niklas Elmehed © Nobel Prize Outreach
They provided an explanation for why some countries are rich and others poor

This year’s laureates have provided new insights into why there are such vast differences in prosperity between nations. One important explanation is persistent differences in societal institutions. By examining the various political and economic systems introduced by European colonisers, Daron Acemoglu, Simon Johnson and James Robinson have been able to demonstrate a relationship between institutions and prosperity. They have also developed theoretical tools that can explain why differences in institutions persist and how institutions can change.
Related articles
Press release
Popular information: They provided an explanation for why some countries are rich and others poor
Scientific background to the Sveriges Riksbank Prize in Economic Sciences in Memory of Alfred Nobel 2024

© Johan Jarnestad/The Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences
Explore prizes and laureates
Select the category or categories you would like to filter by
Physics
Chemistry
Medicine
Literature
Peace
Economic Sciences
Decrease the year by one–
Choose a year you would like to search in
2024
Increase the year by one+
explore
Sign up for the “Monthly” newsletter
Join thousands of global subscribers enjoying the free monthly Nobel Prize highlights, trivia and up-to-date information.

Your e-mail address
Your e-mail address
 I consent to my email address being used in accordance with the privacy policy.
About the Nobel Prize organisation
The Nobel Foundation
Tasked with a mission to manage Alfred Nobel's fortune and has ultimate responsibility for fulfilling the intentions of Nobel's will.

The prize-awarding institutions
For more than a century, these academic institutions have worked independently to select Nobel Prize laureates.

Outreach organisations
Several outreach organisations and activities have been developed to inspire generations and disseminate knowledge about the Nobel Prize.

Press
Contact
FAQ
Privacy policy
Technical support
Terms of use
For developers
Media player
Join us
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Youtube
LinkedIn
The Nobel Prize

Copyright © Nobel Prize Outreach AB 2024
Scroll to top
By clicking “accept all cookies”, you agree to the storing of cookies on your device to enhance site navigation, analyze site usage, and assist in our marketing efforts. Our cookie policy.
Cookies settings Accept all cookies